README.md, before:

# DeploymentContributorFilterer
Generic implementation of a DacFx deployment contributor in .net. Use this tool to filter sql objects during dacpac deployment process by SqlPackage.exe.

Original documentation and discussion adapted from:
*https://the.agilesql.club/2015/01/howto-filter-dacpac-deployments/*

## Basic Usage
Download the latest release from Github or build yourself. Put the AgileSqlClub.SqlPackageFilter.dll file into the same folder as SqlPackage.exe, and add these commmand line parameters to your deployment:

```
/p:AdditionalDeploymentContributors=AgileSqlClub.DeploymentFilterContributor /p:AdditionalDeploymentContributorArguments="SqlPackageFilter=IgnoreSchema(BLAH)"
```

This will neither deploy, drop or alter anything in the BLAH schema.

## Bootstrapping custom filters with SqlPackage.exe
Ok so the way the DacFx api works is that you need to put the dll that contains the contributor into the same folder as sqlpackage.exe. Once the dll is in the same folder as sqlpackage.exe you need to tell it to load the contributor which you do using this argument:

```
/p:AdditionalDeploymentContributors=AgileSqlClub.DeploymentFilterContributor
```

## Types of Filters
There are two types of filters: **Keep** and **Ignore**.

**Keep** filters stop objects being dropped when they are in the dacpac but not the destination, if they are in the dacpac and not in the destination *or are different* then they will be created or altered.

Keep are really only ever used in combination with */p:DropObjectsInSource=True* otherwise they wouldn’t be dropped anyway.

**Ignore** filters stop any sort of operation, create, alter or drop so there is some flexibility.

Once you know what type of filter you want you need to decide what you will filter on, your choices are: **Name**, **SchemaName** and **object type** (stored procedure, function, table, user, role, rolemembership etc etc).

* Name filters work on an objects name, pretty straight forward.
* Schema filters work on the name of the schema so you can keep or ignore everything in a specific schema
* Object type filters work on the type of the object as the DacFx api sees it, these types are all documented as properties of the ModelSchema class: [link](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/microsoft.sqlserver.dac.model.modelschema.aspx)

The object types are all fields, so the list starts Aggregate, ApplicationRole etc etc. Once you have decided how you will filter you specify the filter itself which is a regex, but don’t be scared it doesn’t have to be complex.

## Examples
Because of the way we pass the arguments to SqlPackage.exe and it then parses them and passes them onto the deployment contributor it is a little rigid, but essentially the filter itself look like:

To keep everything in dbo:
```
KeepSchema(dbo)
```

To ignore all Tables:
```
IgnoreType(Table)
```

To keep a table called MyTable or MyExcellentFunnyTable:
```
KeepName(.*yTabl.*)
```

Behind the scenes, matching relies on regex using the default .Net options for the Match method. 
To only deploy to the dbo schema (ie exclude non-dbo objects):
```
IgnoreSchema(^(?!\b(?i)dbo\b).*)
```

When you have decided on the filter you use need to pass it to SqlPackage.exe using:
```
/p:AdditionalDeploymentContributorArguments="SqlPackageFilter=KeepSecurity"
```

You can specify multiple filters by seperating them with a semi colon so and adding a uniqeifier to the end of each arg name:

```
/p:AdditionalDeploymentContributorArguments="SqlPackageFilter0=KeepSecurity;SqlPackageFilter1=IgnoreSchema(dev)"
```

(The reason for the uniqueifier is detailed: https://connect.microsoft.com/SQLServer/feedback/details/1112969)




### Contributing

If you would like to contribute and want to run the tests, create a sql local db instance called Fileter - "sqllocaldb c Filter" - all tests are hardcoded to that (sorry ha ha)

Commit message:

Extended readme with information for Keep all filter

README.md, after:

# DeploymentContributorFilterer
Generic implementation of a DacFx deployment contributor in .net. Use this tool to filter sql objects during dacpac deployment process by SqlPackage.exe.

Original documentation and discussion adapted from:
*https://the.agilesql.club/2015/01/howto-filter-dacpac-deployments/*

## Basic Usage
Download the latest release from Github or build yourself. Put the AgileSqlClub.SqlPackageFilter.dll file into the same folder as SqlPackage.exe, and add these commmand line parameters to your deployment:

```
/p:AdditionalDeploymentContributors=AgileSqlClub.DeploymentFilterContributor /p:AdditionalDeploymentContributorArguments="SqlPackageFilter=IgnoreSchema(BLAH)"
```

This will neither deploy, drop or alter anything in the BLAH schema.

## Bootstrapping custom filters with SqlPackage.exe
Ok so the way the DacFx api works is that you need to put the dll that contains the contributor into the same folder as sqlpackage.exe. Once the dll is in the same folder as sqlpackage.exe you need to tell it to load the contributor which you do using this argument:

```
/p:AdditionalDeploymentContributors=AgileSqlClub.DeploymentFilterContributor
```

## Types of Filters
There are two types of filters: **Keep** and **Ignore**.

**Keep** filters stop objects being dropped when they are in the dacpac but not the destination, if they are in the dacpac and not in the destination *or are different* then they will be created or altered.

Keep are really only ever used in combination with */p:DropObjectsInSource=True* otherwise they wouldn’t be dropped anyway.

**Ignore** filters stop any sort of operation, create, alter or drop so there is some flexibility.

Once you know what type of filter you want you need to decide what you will filter on, your choices are: **Name**, **SchemaName**, **TableColumn** and **object type** (stored procedure, function, table, user, role, rolemembership etc etc).

* Name filters work on an objects name, pretty straight forward.
* Schema filters work on the name of the schema so you can keep or ignore everything in a specific schema
* TableColumn filters work with specified table columns. Reserved keyword *all* allows ignoring column deletion for all tables
* Object type filters work on the type of the object as the DacFx api sees it, these types are all documented as properties of the ModelSchema class: [link](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/microsoft.sqlserver.dac.model.modelschema.aspx)

The object types are all fields, so the list starts Aggregate, ApplicationRole etc etc. Once you have decided how you will filter you specify the filter itself which is a regex, but don’t be scared it doesn’t have to be complex.

## Examples
Because of the way we pass the arguments to SqlPackage.exe and it then parses them and passes them onto the deployment contributor it is a little rigid, but essentially the filter itself look like:

To keep everything in dbo:
```
KeepSchema(dbo)
```

To ignore all Tables:
```
IgnoreType(Table)
```

To keep a table called MyTable or MyExcellentFunnyTable:
```
KeepName(.*yTabl.*)
```

Following filter can prevent deletion of all columns added to target databse:
```
KeepTableColumns(all)
```

Behind the scenes, matching relies on regex using the default .Net options for the Match method. 
To only deploy to the dbo schema (ie exclude non-dbo objects):
```
IgnoreSchema(^(?!\b(?i)dbo\b).*)
```

When you have decided on the filter you use need to pass it to SqlPackage.exe using:
```
/p:AdditionalDeploymentContributorArguments="SqlPackageFilter=KeepSecurity"
```

You can specify multiple filters by seperating them with a semi colon so and adding a uniqeifier to the end of each arg name:

```
/p:AdditionalDeploymentContributorArguments="SqlPackageFilter0=KeepSecurity;SqlPackageFilter1=IgnoreSchema(dev)"
```

(The reason for the uniqueifier is detailed: https://connect.microsoft.com/SQLServer/feedback/details/1112969)




### Contributing

If you would like to contribute and want to run the tests, create a sql local db instance called Fileter - "sqllocaldb c Filter" - all tests are hardcoded to that (sorry ha ha)
